README.md, before:

[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator)
[![Codecov Status](https://codecov.io/github/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/coverage.svg?precision=2)](https://codecov.io/github/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator)

Tax-Calculator
==============

The Tax-Calculator simulates the US federal individual income tax
system.  In conjunction with micro data that represent the US
population and a set of behavioral assumptions, the Tax-Calculator can
be used to conduct revenue scoring and distributional analyses of tax
policies.  The Tax-Calculator is written in Python, an interpreted
language that can execute on Windows, Mac, or Linux.


Disclaimer
==========

Results will change as the underlying models improve. A fundamental
reason for adopting open source methods in this project is so that
people from all backgrounds can contribute to the models that our
society uses to assess economic policy; when community-contributed
improvements are incorporated, the model will produce different
results.

Getting Started
===============

At the moment there are two ways to start using the Tax-Calculator.

The first way is install the Tax-Calculator on your computer.  Do this
by following the instructions in our [Contributor
Guide](http://taxcalc.readthedocs.org/en/latest/contributor_guide.html)
and then reading about our [testing procedure](TESTING.md).

The second way is to access the Tax-Calculator through our web
application, [TaxBrain](http://www.ospc.org/taxbrain).

Conda Package for Advanced Anaconda Users
=========================================

Conda taxcalc packages are created for every release of the Tax-Calculator.
We use them to install taxcalc on Amazon Web Services (AWS) instances that
run the TaxBrain web application.  You can get the latest release of the
Tax-Calculator to run on your computer via the command
`conda install -c ospc taxcalc`.  Note that this package does not include
a micro data set that represents the US population.

Commit message:

Edit the README.md Getting Started section.

README.md, after:

[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator)
[![Codecov Status](https://codecov.io/github/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/coverage.svg?precision=2)](https://codecov.io/github/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator)

Tax-Calculator
==============

The Tax-Calculator simulates the US federal individual income tax
system.  In conjunction with micro data that represent the US
population and a set of behavioral assumptions, the Tax-Calculator can
be used to conduct revenue scoring and distributional analyses of tax
policies.  The Tax-Calculator is written in Python, an interpreted
language that can execute on Windows, Mac, or Linux.


Disclaimer
==========

Results will change as the underlying models improve. A fundamental
reason for adopting open source methods in this project is so that
people from all backgrounds can contribute to the models that our
society uses to assess economic policy; when community-contributed
improvements are incorporated, the model will produce different
results.

Getting Started
===============

At the moment there are **three ways** to start using the Tax-Calculator.

(1) The **first way** is install the Tax-Calculator repository on your
computer.  Do this by following the instructions in our [Contributor
Guide](http://taxcalc.readthedocs.org/en/latest/contributor_guide.html)
and then reading about our [testing procedure](TESTING.md).  This way
allows you to read the source code and contribute enhancements to the
source code.  While this way does not provide you with a
representative sample of tax filing units, it does allow you to
estimate tax liabilities and marginal tax rates for any collection of
filing units specified in [Internet-TAXSIM input
format](http://users.nber.org/~taxsim/taxsim-calc9/).

(2) The **second way** is to access the Tax-Calculator through our web
application, [TaxBrain](http://www.ospc.org/taxbrain).  This way
allows you to generate tax reform estimates using a representative
sample of tax filing units that is not part of the Tax-Calculator
repository.

(3) The **third way**, which is for advanced Anaconda users, involves
installing a taxcalc package on your local computer.  A new taxcalc
package is generated for every release of the Tax-Calculator.  We use
the package to install taxcalc on Amazon Web Services (AWS) instances
that run the TaxBrain web application.  You can get the latest release
of the Tax-Calculator to run on your computer via the command ```conda
install -c ospc taxcalc```.  Note that this package does not include a
micro data set that represents the US population.  Also, note that
there is some skill involved in Getting Started the **first way** and
installing the taxcalc package on the same local computer.

And, of course, you can get started with any combination of these
three ways of using the Tax-Calculator.
