taxcalc/taxcalcsas/README.md, before:

# Comparing Tax-Calculator and TAXCALC-SAS results

This directory includes tools used to compare the income tax results
generated by Tax-Calculator with results generated by the [TAXCALC-SAS
program](http://www.nber.org/taxcalc) developed by Dan Feenberg and
Inna Shapiro of NBER with assistance from IRS-SOI staff.  This program
is contained in the single file named `taxcalc.sas`.


The tools included in this directory are intended for use by the
Tax-Calculator core development team and support the following
four-step cross-model-comparison work flow:

  1. Generate a sample of tax filing units (INPUT).
  2. Generate OUTPUT from INPUT using the `inctax.py` script.
  3. Generate OUTPUT from INPUT using the `taxcalc.sas` program.
  4. Generate tax differences by comparing the two OUTPUT files.

## Initial comparisons

The initial phase of this comparison project,
which was conducted during April 2016, involves generating four
separate INPUT files, each one of which contains 100,000 different
randomly-generated tax filing units for 2013.  The **a13** sample
units have no itemized deduction expenses and no childcare expenses.
The **b13** sample does have itemized deductions expenses, but no
childcare expenses.  The **c13** sample has both itemized
deduction expenses and childcare expenses.  And the **d14** sample
is similar to the c13 sample except there are filing units with positive
property income and a few couples with a very large age difference (to
test the EITC age-eligibility logic of the two models).  Each of these
four samples have been used to generate identical income tax liabilities
using Tax-Calculator and Internet TAXSIM as described
[here](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/validation/README.md).

In these initial comparisons,
steps 1 and 2 are accomplished by the commands in the
[compare1](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare1)
bash script (which will not execute on Windows).  Step 3 is
accomplished by (a) copying the INPUT file (as `compare-in.csv`), the
TAXCALC-SAS program (`taxcalc.sas`), and the
[compare.sas](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare.sas)
SAS script to the same directory; (b) executing the `compare.sas` script;
and (c) copying back the resulting `compare-out.csv` file to the
current directory.  And step 4 is accomplished by the commands in the
[compare2](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare2)
bash script (which will not execute on Windows).

Specifically, the samples are generated using these commands:

```
$ ./compare1 a 13 ; ./compare1 b 13 ; ./compare1 c 13 ; ./compare1 d 13
```

The generated `a13.csv`, `b13.csv`, `c13.csv`, and `d13.csv` files are copied
(along with `compare.sas` and `taxcalc.sas`) to a directory where
`compare.sas` is executed by SAS.  The resulting `compare-out.csv`
files are copied back to this directory as `a13.out-sas`,
`b13.out-sas`, `c13.out-sas`, and `d13.out-sas`, respectively.  And finally,
those files are processed using these commands:

```
$ ./compare2 a 13 ; ./compare2 b 13 ; ./compare2 c 13 ; ./compare2 d 13
```

The summary results of this comparison exercise are in four files:
[a13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/a13-13.taxdifferences),
[b13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/b13-13.taxdifferences),
[c13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/c13-13.taxdifferences), and
[d13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/d13-13.taxdifferences).

The contents of these four cross-model-differences files are shown
here along with some commentary.

### a13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19     52     52      0.01 [874]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     36     36      0.01 [2633]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27     71     71      0.01 [2665]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28     49     49      0.01 [874]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4     54     54     -0.01 [17158]
```

These a13 comparison results show that there are no differences
between `taxcalc.sas` and Tax-Calculator federal income tax
liabilities, or in several intermediate tax amounts, greater than one
cent.  However, these results ignore the fact that the current version
of Tax-Calculator does not calculate the Schedule R tax credit;
instead it reads it in from a more comprehensive input file than
`a13.csv`.  The `b13` and `c13` differences shown below also ignore
the Schedule R tax credit differences.

### b13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17   2086      0 -45500.00 [57063]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18   1306      0  29432.00 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19   1372     66   9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     33     33      0.01 [1274]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    507    196  -9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              211
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    382     77   9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    266     55  -3287.50 [75773]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              211
```

These b13 comparison results show that there are very few (211 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is almost $3300 (for the unit
with RECID 75773) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

### c13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17   2123      0 -45350.00 [14914]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18   1333      0  31050.00 [39230]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19   1391     58   9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     51     51      0.01 [1256]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    537    202  -9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              251
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    397     70   9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    328     77  -3150.00 [29984]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              251
```

These c13 comparison results show that there are very few (251 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is $3150 (for the unit
with RECID 29984) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

### d13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17    986      0 -43400.00 [11739]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18    726      0  27050.00 [60137]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19    788     62   8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25      7      7     -0.01 [20505]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    474    188  -8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              189
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    354     72   8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    221     32  -3079.00 [300]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              189
```

These d13 comparison results show that there are very few (189 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is $3079 (for the unit
with RECID 300) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

As indicated above, these few differences in income tax liabilities in
the **b13**, **c13**, and **d13** samples represent not only differences
between `taxcalc.sas` and Tax-Calculator, but also differences between
`taxcalc.sas` and Internet TAXSIM.

## Comparison using 2009 `puf.csv` input

This comparison, which was conducted beginning in May 2016, involves
using the 2009 `puf.csv` file as input to both the `inctax.py`
interface to Tax-Calculator and the TAXCALC-SAS program
(`taxcalc.sas`).  This input file, which contains filing units from
the 2009 IRS-SOI PUF and CPS units to represent non-filers, contains
219,814 units and a much wider range of input variables than the
samples described above.

The four-step cross-model-comparison work flow describe above is
implemented as follows in this case.  The `puf.csv` file is copied
to the current directory and serves as in INPUT file, so there is
nothing else to do for step 1.  Step 2 is accomplished by these
commands:
```
$ python ../../inctax.py puf.csv 2013
$ mv puf-13.out-inctax py-out
```

Step 3 is accomplished in the same way as with the initial comparisons.
Step 4 is accomplished by the following commands:
```
$ python sas2out.py puf.out-sas sas-out
$ tclsh ../validation/taxdiffs.tcl --taxcalc py-out sas-out > puf-13.taxdiffs
```

Commit message:

Add taxcalc/taxcalcsas/pufprep.py script.

taxcalc/taxcalcsas/README.md, after:

# Comparing Tax-Calculator and TAXCALC-SAS results

This directory includes tools used to compare the income tax results
generated by Tax-Calculator with results generated by the [TAXCALC-SAS
program](http://www.nber.org/taxcalc) developed by Dan Feenberg and
Inna Shapiro of NBER with assistance from IRS-SOI staff.  This program
is contained in the single file named `taxcalc.sas`.


The tools included in this directory are intended for use by the
Tax-Calculator core development team and support the following
four-step cross-model-comparison work flow:

  1. Generate a sample of tax filing units (INPUT).
  2. Generate OUTPUT from INPUT using the `inctax.py` script.
  3. Generate OUTPUT from INPUT using the `taxcalc.sas` program.
  4. Generate tax differences by comparing the two OUTPUT files.

## Initial comparisons

The initial phase of this comparison project,
which was conducted during April 2016, involves generating four
separate INPUT files, each one of which contains 100,000 different
randomly-generated tax filing units for 2013.  The **a13** sample
units have no itemized deduction expenses and no childcare expenses.
The **b13** sample does have itemized deductions expenses, but no
childcare expenses.  The **c13** sample has both itemized
deduction expenses and childcare expenses.  And the **d14** sample
is similar to the c13 sample except there are filing units with positive
property income and a few couples with a very large age difference (to
test the EITC age-eligibility logic of the two models).  Each of these
four samples have been used to generate identical income tax liabilities
using Tax-Calculator and Internet TAXSIM as described
[here](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/validation/README.md).

In these initial comparisons,
steps 1 and 2 are accomplished by the commands in the
[compare1](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare1)
bash script (which will not execute on Windows).  Step 3 is
accomplished by (a) copying the INPUT file (as `compare-in.csv`), the
TAXCALC-SAS program (`taxcalc.sas`), and the
[compare.sas](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare.sas)
SAS script to the same directory; (b) executing the `compare.sas` script;
and (c) copying back the resulting `compare-out.csv` file to the
current directory.  And step 4 is accomplished by the commands in the
[compare2](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/compare2)
bash script (which will not execute on Windows).

Specifically, the samples are generated using these commands:

```
$ ./compare1 a 13 ; ./compare1 b 13 ; ./compare1 c 13 ; ./compare1 d 13
```

The generated `a13.csv`, `b13.csv`, `c13.csv`, and `d13.csv` files are copied
(along with `compare.sas` and `taxcalc.sas`) to a directory where
`compare.sas` is executed by SAS.  The resulting `compare-out.csv`
files are copied back to this directory as `a13.out-sas`,
`b13.out-sas`, `c13.out-sas`, and `d13.out-sas`, respectively.  And finally,
those files are processed using these commands:

```
$ ./compare2 a 13 ; ./compare2 b 13 ; ./compare2 c 13 ; ./compare2 d 13
```

The summary results of this comparison exercise are in four files:
[a13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/a13-13.taxdifferences),
[b13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/b13-13.taxdifferences),
[c13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/c13-13.taxdifferences), and
[d13.taxdifferences](https://github.com/open-source-economics/Tax-Calculator/blob/master/taxcalc/taxcalcsas/d13-13.taxdifferences).

The contents of these four cross-model-differences files are shown
here along with some commentary.

### a13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19     52     52      0.01 [874]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     36     36      0.01 [2633]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27     71     71      0.01 [2665]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28     49     49      0.01 [874]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4     54     54     -0.01 [17158]
```

These a13 comparison results show that there are no differences
between `taxcalc.sas` and Tax-Calculator federal income tax
liabilities, or in several intermediate tax amounts, greater than one
cent.  However, these results ignore the fact that the current version
of Tax-Calculator does not calculate the Schedule R tax credit;
instead it reads it in from a more comprehensive input file than
`a13.csv`.  The `b13` and `c13` differences shown below also ignore
the Schedule R tax credit differences.

### b13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17   2086      0 -45500.00 [57063]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18   1306      0  29432.00 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19   1372     66   9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     33     33      0.01 [1274]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    507    196  -9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              211
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    382     77   9712.56 [81587]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              205
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    266     55  -3287.50 [75773]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              211
```

These b13 comparison results show that there are very few (211 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is almost $3300 (for the unit
with RECID 75773) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

### c13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17   2123      0 -45350.00 [14914]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18   1333      0  31050.00 [39230]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19   1391     58   9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25     51     51      0.01 [1256]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    537    202  -9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              251
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    397     70   9696.72 [21201]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              243
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    328     77  -3150.00 [29984]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              251
```

These c13 comparison results show that there are very few (251 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is $3150 (for the unit
with RECID 29984) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

### d13 differences

```
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 17    986      0 -43400.00 [11739]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 18    726      0  27050.00 [60137]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 19    788     62   8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 25      7      7     -0.01 [20505]
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 27    474    188  -8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              189
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]= 28    354     72   8869.82 [66360]
      #big_vardiffs_with_big_inctax_diff=              185
TAXDIFF:ovar,#diffs,#1cdiffs,maxdiff[id]=  4    221     32  -3079.00 [300]
                       #big_inctax_diffs=              189
```

These d13 comparison results show that there are very few (189 out of
100,000) units with income tax liabilities different by more than one
cent.  The largest income tax difference is $3079 (for the unit
with RECID 300) with the Tax-Calculator amount being less that the
`taxcalc.sas` amount.  The causes of these few differences will be
investigated.

As indicated above, these few differences in income tax liabilities in
the **b13**, **c13**, and **d13** samples represent not only differences
between `taxcalc.sas` and Tax-Calculator, but also differences between
`taxcalc.sas` and Internet TAXSIM.

## Comparison using modified 2009 `puf.csv` input

This comparison, which was conducted beginning in May 2016, involves
using a modified version of the 2009 `puf.csv` file as input to both
the `inctax.py` interface to Tax-Calculator and the TAXCALC-SAS program
(`taxcalc.sas`).  The modifications, which are performed by the `pufprep.py`
script, are necessary to avoid spurious income tax differences casued by
the incomplete payroll tax logic in TAXCALC-SAS.  The modified file, which
contains filing units from the 2009 IRS-SOI PUF and CPS units to represent
non-filers, contains 219,814 units and a much wider range of input variables
than the samples described above.

The four-step cross-model-comparison work flow describe above is
implemented as follows in this case.  Copy the `puf.csv` file to the
current directory with the name `pufraw.csv`.  Steps 1 and 2 are then
accomplished by these commands:
```
$ python pufprep.py pufraw.csv puf.csv
$ python ../../inctax.py puf.csv 2013
$ mv puf-13.out-inctax py-out
```

Step 3 is accomplished in the same way as with the initial comparisons.
Step 4 is accomplished by the following commands:
```
$ python sas2out.py puf.out-sas sas-out
$ tclsh ../validation/taxdiffs.tcl --taxcalc py-out sas-out > puf-13.taxdiffs
$ diff puf-13.taxdiffs puf-13.taxdifferences
```
