docs/source/installation.rst, before:

Installation 
======================

We recommend that you first install the Anaconda distribution of Python for free from `Continuum Analytics`_. 

For general users, we keep the `latest version`_ for Python 2.7 and 3.4 under the ospc channel on binstar. To install 

.. code-block:: python

	>>> conda install -c ospc taxcalc

which will grab the latest taxcalc package from binstar.org. Currently, we host Python 3.4 and Python 2.7 packages for Linux, OS X, and Windows.

While developing, you can install taxcalc including the most recent local changes via 

.. code-block:: python

	>>> python setup.py install 


For contributors, the conda recipe is located in the ``conda.recipe`` directory. You can build the conda package via the ``conda build`` command:

.. code-block:: python 

	>>> conda build --python 3.4 conda.recipe/

To learn more about the conda package manager, go to the `conda docs`_.

.. _`conda docs`: http://conda.pydata.org
.. _`latest version`: https://binstar.org/ospc
.. _`Continuum Analytics`: http://continuum.io/downloads

Commit message:

Edit docs/source/installation.rst title to clarify that these are obsolete installation instructions that are no longer used in the docs/source/index.rst file.  (Keep the installation.rst file in the repository because it may be of help to some web developers.)  Edit docs/source/index.rst file so that installation.rst is not in the table of contents.  There are still 28 Sphinx warnings when running 'make html' in docs directory.

docs/source/installation.rst, after:

:orphan:

Obsolete Installation Instructions (not used in docs)
=====================================================

We recommend that you first install the Anaconda distribution of
Python for free from `Continuum Analytics`_.

For general users, we keep the `latest version`_ for Python 2.7 and
3.4 under the ospc channel on binstar. To install

.. code-block:: python

	>>> conda install -c ospc taxcalc

which will grab the latest taxcalc package from
binstar.org. Currently, we host Python 3.4 and Python 2.7 packages for
Linux, OS X, and Windows.

While developing, you can install taxcalc including the most recent
local changes via

.. code-block:: python

	>>> python setup.py install 

For contributors, the conda recipe is located in the ``conda.recipe``
directory. You can build the conda package via the ``conda build``
command:

.. code-block:: python 

	>>> conda build --python 3.4 conda.recipe/

To learn more about the conda package manager, go to the `conda docs`_.


.. _`conda docs`: http://conda.pydata.org
.. _`latest version`: https://binstar.org/ospc
.. _`Continuum Analytics`: http://continuum.io/downloads
