taxcalc/validation/CSV_INPUT_VARS.md, before:

2015 CSV-Input Variables Documentation
======================================

First an alphabetical list of all input variables and then an
example of a small CSV-formatted input file.

All Input Variables
-------------------

The following table includes all the input variables contained in
CSV-formatted input files generated by the `csv_in.py` script.

| Var-name | IRS-form | Form-line | Var-description
| :------- | :------- | :-------- | :--------------
| age_head | ? | ? | age in years of taxpayer (i.e., primary filer)
| age_spouse | ? | ? | age in years of spouse (i.e., secondary filer if present)
| blind_head | 1040 | 39a | 1 if taxpayer is blind; otherwise 0
| blind_spouse | 1040 | 39a | 1 if spouse is blind; otherwise 0
| DSI | 1040 | 6a | 1 if claimed as dependent on another return; otherwise 0
| e00200 | 1040 | 7 | wages, salaries, and tips for filing unit
| e00200p | 1040 | 7* | wages, salaries, and tips for taxpayer
| e00200s | 1040 | 7* | wages, salaries, and tips for spouse
| e00300 | 1040 | 8a | taxable interest income
| e00400 | 1040 | 8b | tax-exempt interest income
| e00600 | 1040 | 9a | ordinary dividends included in AGI
| e00650 | 1040 | 9b | qualified dividends included in ordinary dividends
| e00700 | 1040 | 10 | taxable refunds of state and local income tax
| e00800 | 1040 | 11 | alimony received
| e00900 | 1040 | 12 | Sch C business net profit/loss for filing unit
| e00900p | 1040 | 12* | Sch C business net profit/loss for taxpayer
| e00900s | 1040 | 12* | Sch C business net profit/loss for spouse
| e01100 | 1040 | 13 | capital gain distributions not reported on Sch D
| e01200 | 1040 | 14 | other net gain/loss (Form 4797)
| e01400 | 1040 | 15b | taxable IRA distributions
| e01500 | 1040 | 16a | some (not all) nontaxable pensions and annuities
| e01700 | 1040 | 16b | taxable pensions and annuities
| e02000 | 1040 | 17 | Sch E rental, royalty, S-corp, etc, income
| e02100 | 1040 | 18 | farm net income/loss for filing unit (Sch F)
| e02100p | 1040 | 18* | farm net income/loss for taxpayer
| e02100s | 1040 | 18* | farm net income/loss for spouse
| e02300 | 1040 | 19 | unemployment compensation benefits
| e02400 | 1040 | 20a | gross social security benefits
| e03150 | 1040| 32 | total deductible IRA contributions
| e03210 | 1040 | 33 | student loan interest deduction
| e03220 | 1040 | 23 | educator expenses
| e03230 | 1040 | 34 | tuition and fees (Form 8917)
| e03240 | 1040 | 35 | domestic production activities deduction (Form 8903)
| e03270 | 1040 | 29 | self-employed health insurance deduction
| e03290 | 1040 | 25 | Health Savings Account deduction (Form 8889)
| e03300 | 1040 | 28 | Contributions to SEP, SIMPLE, etc, qualified plans
| e03400 | 1040 | 30 | penalty on early withdrawal of savings
| e03500 | 1040 | 31a | alimony paid
| e07240 | 1040 | 51 | retirement savings contributions credit (Form 8880)
| e07260 | 1040 | 53 | residential energy credit (Form 5695)
| e07300 | 1040 | 48 | foreign tax credit (Form 1116)
| e07400 | 1040 | 54a | general business credit (Form 3800)
| e07600 | 1040 | 54b | prior year minimum tax credit (Form 8801)
| e09700 | 4255 | 15 | recapture of investment credit
| e09800 | 1040 | 58 | unreported social security (Forms 4137 and 8919)
| e09900 | 1040 | 59 | penalty tax on qualified retirement plans
| e11200 | 1040 | 65 | excess social security and RRTA tax withheld
| e17500 | Sch A | 1 | medical and dental expenses
| e18400 | Sch A | 5 | state and local income/sales taxes
| e18500 | Sch A | 6 | real-estate taxes
| e19200 | Sch A | 15 | total interest paid
| e19800 | Sch A | 16 | gifts to charity: cash/check contributions
| e20100 | Sch A | 17 | gifts to charity: other than cash/check contributions
| e20400 | Sch A | 24 | miscellaneous deductions subject to 2% AGI limit
| e20500 | Sch A | 20 | casualty or theft losses (Form 4684)
| e24515 | Sch D | 19 | un-recaptured Section 1250 gain
| e24518 | Sch D | 18 | 28%-rate gain/loss
| e26270 | Sch E | 32 | combined partnership and S-corp net income/loss
| e27200 | Sch E | 40 | farm rent net income/loss
| e32800 | 2441 | 3 | child/dependent-care expenses for qualifying persons
| e58990 | 4952 | 4g | investment income elected amount
| e62900 | 6251 | 32 | Alternative Minimum Tax foreign tax credit
| e87530 | 8863 | 10 | total LLC adjusted qualified expenses for all students
| EIC | Sch EIC | ? | number of EIC qualifying children (range: 0 to 3)
| f2441 | 2441 | 2b | number of child/dependent-care qualifying persons
| f6251 | 6251 | ? | 1 if Form 6251 (AMT) attached to return; otherwise 0
| FLPDYR | - | - | tax filing year (value is 2015)
| MARS | 1040 | 1-5 | Filing (marital) status: categorical variable
| MIDR | 1040 | 39b | 1 if separately filing spouse itemizes; otherwise 0
| n24 | ? | ? | number of children eligible for Child Tax Credit
| p08000 | 1040 | 54 | other tax credits (but not including Sch R credit)
| p22250 | Sch D | 7 | net short-term gain/loss
| p23250 | Sch D | 15 | net long-term gain/loss
| p25470 | Sch E | 18 | royalty depletion and/or rental depreciation
| p87521 | 8863 | 1 | total tentative AmOppCredit amount for all students
| RECID | - | - | unique integer filing-unit identifier
| XTOT | 1040 | 6d | total number of exemptions for filing unit


Example Input File
------------------

The following input file contains only 24 of the input variables
listed above (all others are assumed to have a value of zero) and
contains only the variable-name header row and three filing unit rows.

```
e00200p,XTOT,e00200s,e00650,e01700,e18500,EIC,RECID,p22250,e00300,e00200,age_head,f2441,age_spouse,n24,p23250,e00600,e18400,FLPDYR,e02400,e02300,MARS,e32800,e19200
8200.0,2,6200.0,1000.0,16000.0,6400.0,0,1,5000.0,7000.0,14400.0,70,0,50,0,-5000.0,1000.0,25600.0,2015,50000.0,3000.0,2,0.0,5000.0
19200.0,2,1700.0,2000.0,28000.0,3477.0,0,2,4000.0,3000.0,20900.0,70,0,50,0,2000.0,2000.0,10430.0,2015,14000.0,3000.0,2,0.0,18543.0
17300.0,2,17800.0,7000.0,12000.0,0.0,0,3,-1000.0,1000.0,35100.0,70,0,50,0,3000.0,7000.0,38408.0,2015,40000.0,2000.0,2,0.0,8642.0
```

Commit message:

Add text to CSV_INPUT_VARS.md file.

taxcalc/validation/CSV_INPUT_VARS.md, after:

2015 CSV-Input Variables Documentation
======================================

First an alphabetical list of all input variables and then an
example of a small CSV-formatted input file.

All Input Variables
-------------------

The following table includes all the input variables contained in
CSV-formatted input files generated by the `csv_in.py` script.
These (arcane) variable names follow the variable naming convention
in the IRS-SOI Public Use File (PUF).

| Var-name | IRS-form | Form-line | Var-description
| :------- | :------- | :-------- | :--------------
| age_head | ? | ? | age in years of taxpayer (i.e., primary filer)
| age_spouse | ? | ? | age in years of spouse (i.e., secondary filer if present)
| blind_head | 1040 | 39a | 1 if taxpayer is blind; otherwise 0
| blind_spouse | 1040 | 39a | 1 if spouse is blind; otherwise 0
| DSI | 1040 | 6a | 1 if claimed as dependent on another return; otherwise 0
| e00200 | 1040 | 7 | wages, salaries, and tips for filing unit
| e00200p | 1040 | 7* | wages, salaries, and tips for taxpayer
| e00200s | 1040 | 7* | wages, salaries, and tips for spouse
| e00300 | 1040 | 8a | taxable interest income
| e00400 | 1040 | 8b | tax-exempt interest income
| e00600 | 1040 | 9a | ordinary dividends included in AGI
| e00650 | 1040 | 9b | qualified dividends included in ordinary dividends
| e00700 | 1040 | 10 | taxable refunds of state and local income tax
| e00800 | 1040 | 11 | alimony received
| e00900 | 1040 | 12 | Sch C business net profit/loss for filing unit
| e00900p | 1040 | 12* | Sch C business net profit/loss for taxpayer
| e00900s | 1040 | 12* | Sch C business net profit/loss for spouse
| e01100 | 1040 | 13 | capital gain distributions not reported on Sch D
| e01200 | 1040 | 14 | other net gain/loss (Form 4797)
| e01400 | 1040 | 15b | taxable IRA distributions
| e01500 | 1040 | 16a | some (not all) nontaxable pensions and annuities
| e01700 | 1040 | 16b | taxable pensions and annuities
| e02000 | 1040 | 17 | Sch E rental, royalty, S-corp, etc, income
| e02100 | 1040 | 18 | farm net income/loss for filing unit (Sch F)
| e02100p | 1040 | 18* | farm net income/loss for taxpayer
| e02100s | 1040 | 18* | farm net income/loss for spouse
| e02300 | 1040 | 19 | unemployment compensation benefits
| e02400 | 1040 | 20a | gross social security benefits
| e03150 | 1040| 32 | total deductible IRA contributions
| e03210 | 1040 | 33 | student loan interest deduction
| e03220 | 1040 | 23 | educator expenses
| e03230 | 1040 | 34 | tuition and fees (Form 8917)
| e03240 | 1040 | 35 | domestic production activities deduction (Form 8903)
| e03270 | 1040 | 29 | self-employed health insurance deduction
| e03290 | 1040 | 25 | Health Savings Account deduction (Form 8889)
| e03300 | 1040 | 28 | Contributions to SEP, SIMPLE, etc, qualified plans
| e03400 | 1040 | 30 | penalty on early withdrawal of savings
| e03500 | 1040 | 31a | alimony paid
| e07240 | 1040 | 51 | retirement savings contributions credit (Form 8880)
| e07260 | 1040 | 53 | residential energy credit (Form 5695)
| e07300 | 1040 | 48 | foreign tax credit (Form 1116)
| e07400 | 1040 | 54a | general business credit (Form 3800)
| e07600 | 1040 | 54b | prior year minimum tax credit (Form 8801)
| e09700 | 4255 | 15 | recapture of investment credit
| e09800 | 1040 | 58 | unreported social security (Forms 4137 and 8919)
| e09900 | 1040 | 59 | penalty tax on qualified retirement plans
| e11200 | 1040 | 65 | excess social security and RRTA tax withheld
| e17500 | Sch A | 1 | medical and dental expenses
| e18400 | Sch A | 5 | state and local income/sales taxes
| e18500 | Sch A | 6 | real-estate taxes
| e19200 | Sch A | 15 | total interest paid
| e19800 | Sch A | 16 | gifts to charity: cash/check contributions
| e20100 | Sch A | 17 | gifts to charity: other than cash/check contributions
| e20400 | Sch A | 24 | miscellaneous deductions subject to 2% AGI limit
| e20500 | Sch A | 20 | casualty or theft losses (Form 4684)
| e24515 | Sch D | 19 | un-recaptured Section 1250 gain
| e24518 | Sch D | 18 | 28%-rate gain/loss
| e26270 | Sch E | 32 | combined partnership and S-corp net income/loss
| e27200 | Sch E | 40 | farm rent net income/loss
| e32800 | 2441 | 3 | child/dependent-care expenses for qualifying persons
| e58990 | 4952 | 4g | investment income elected amount
| e62900 | 6251 | 32 | Alternative Minimum Tax foreign tax credit
| e87530 | 8863 | 10 | total LLC adjusted qualified expenses for all students
| EIC | Sch EIC | ? | number of EIC qualifying children (range: 0 to 3)
| f2441 | 2441 | 2b | number of child/dependent-care qualifying persons
| f6251 | 6251 | ? | 1 if Form 6251 (AMT) attached to return; otherwise 0
| FLPDYR | - | - | tax filing year (value is 2015)
| MARS | 1040 | 1-5 | Filing (marital) status: categorical variable
| MIDR | 1040 | 39b | 1 if separately filing spouse itemizes; otherwise 0
| n24 | ? | ? | number of children eligible for Child Tax Credit
| p08000 | 1040 | 54 | other tax credits (but not including Sch R credit)
| p22250 | Sch D | 7 | net short-term gain/loss
| p23250 | Sch D | 15 | net long-term gain/loss
| p25470 | Sch E | 18 | royalty depletion and/or rental depreciation
| p87521 | 8863 | 1 | total tentative AmOppCredit amount for all students
| RECID | - | - | unique integer filing-unit identifier
| XTOT | 1040 | 6d | total number of exemptions for filing unit


Example Input File
------------------

The following input file contains only 24 of the input variables
listed above (all others are assumed to have a value of zero) and
contains only the variable-name header row and three filing unit rows.

```
e00200p,XTOT,e00200s,e00650,e01700,e18500,EIC,RECID,p22250,e00300,e00200,age_head,f2441,age_spouse,n24,p23250,e00600,e18400,FLPDYR,e02400,e02300,MARS,e32800,e19200
8200.0,2,6200.0,1000.0,16000.0,6400.0,0,1,5000.0,7000.0,14400.0,70,0,50,0,-5000.0,1000.0,25600.0,2015,50000.0,3000.0,2,0.0,5000.0
19200.0,2,1700.0,2000.0,28000.0,3477.0,0,2,4000.0,3000.0,20900.0,70,0,50,0,2000.0,2000.0,10430.0,2015,14000.0,3000.0,2,0.0,18543.0
17300.0,2,17800.0,7000.0,12000.0,0.0,0,3,-1000.0,1000.0,35100.0,70,0,50,0,3000.0,7000.0,38408.0,2015,40000.0,2000.0,2,0.0,8642.0
```
