Data for Tax-Calculator
=======================

A Tax-Calculator `Records` object is created by passing a Pandas
DataFrame or a string that provides the path to a CSV file with data
you'd like to use with Tax-Calculator.


## Using prepared data with Tax-Calculator

To make Tax-Calculator more useful out of the box, it includes three
data options for users, two of which (`cps.csv` and `puf.csv`) are
created in the [taxdata
repository](https://github.com/PSLmodels/taxdata), and one of which
(`tmd.csv`) is created in the [tax-microdata
repository](https://github.com/PSLmodels/tax-microdata-benchmarking).
We refer users to those repositories for more specific documentation
of these data, but we provide a brief overview of the three prepared
data options that are compatible with Tax-Calculator.

### Current Population Survey data (`cps.csv`)

Using the `Records.cps_constructor()` method to create a `Records`
class object, Tax-Calculator users will be loading the `taxdata`
Current Population Survey (CPS) data file.  This file is based on
publicly available survey data, which is then weighted in `taxdata` to
hit IRS/SOI targets.  The data are then grown out to hit aggregate
forecasts through the time horizon available in Tax-Calculator
(approximately the next 10 years).  All the files required to use this
prepared data option are included in the Tax-Calculator package.

Tax-Calculator provides unit tests to ensure that certain totals are
hit with the CPS-based file.  However, users should note that these
tests are simply to ensure **the accuracy of Tax-Calculator's tax
logic** and **not the accuracy of the CPS-based data file produced by
`taxdata`**.  Please see the
[taxdata](https://github.com/PSLmodels/taxdata) documentation for any
validation of those data.

### 2011 IRS public use data (`puf.csv`)

The taxdata repository also produces a weights file and growth
factors file for use with the 2011 IRS-SOI Public Use File (PUF).  For
users who have purchased their own version of the 2011 PUF, the
`puf_weights.csv.gz` and `growfactors.csv` files that are included in
Tax-Calculator can be used along with the `taxdata` generated `puf.csv`
file when using Tax-Calculator.

We refer users of the PUF to the IRS limitations on the use of those
data and their distribution.  We also refer users of the PUF weights
file and grow factors to the
[taxdata](https://github.com/PSLmodels/taxdata) documentation for
details on how to use these files with the PUF and to see how well the
resulting tax calculations hit aggregate targets published by the IRS.
However, we do note that analysis with a PUF-based data file tends to
be more accurate than the `cps.csv` file and that the validation of
Tax-Calculator with other microsimulation models uses the `puf.csv`
file.

### 2015 IRS public use data (`tmd.csv`)

The [tax-microdata
repository](https://github.com/PSLmodels/tax-microdata-benchmarking)
produces an input variables file (`tmd.csv.gz`), a **national** weights
file (`tmd_weights.csv.gz`), and a variable growth factors file
(`tmd_growfactors.csv`) that can be used with the Tax-Calculator
package beginning with the 3.6.0 release.  The TMD files are available
only to users who have purchased their own version of the 2015 IRS-SOI
PUF.  For those users, the TMD files are available from the
tax-microdata repository.  The three TMD files can be used with
Tax-Calculator in two ways:
  - with the **Python API** by instantiating a GrowFactors object that
    uses TMD growth factors [`gf=GrowFactors("path/to/tmd_growfactors.csv")`]
    and by using the `Records.tmd_constructor()` and
    `Policy.tmd_constructor()` static methods to instantiate a Records
    object and a Policy object, or
  - with the **CLI tool**, `tc`, when the three TMD files are all in
    the same folder and the `tmd.csv.gz` file has been unzipped.

The [tax-microdata
repository](https://github.com/PSLmodels/tax-microdata-benchmarking)
also produces state and Congressional district weights files that can
be used to estimate federal taxes for various sub-national areas.
The easiest way to produce sub-national federal tax estimates is to
supply the **CLI tool** with an environmental variable that indicates
the sub-national area.  So, for example, if you have the South Carolina
state weights in the `sc_tmd_weights.csv.gz` file, put that file in the
folder that contains the three national TMD files described above.
Then, for example, execute `tc` like this:
```
(taxcalc-dev) myruns% TMD_AREA=sc tc tmd.csv 2024 --exact --tables
```


## Using other data with Tax-Calculator

Using other data sources with Tax-Calculator is possible.  Users can
pass any csv file to the `Records` class and, so long as it has the
appropriate [input
variables](https://taxcalc.pslmodels.org/guide/input_vars.html), one
may be able to obtain results.  Using Tax-Calculator with custom data
takes care and significant understanding of the model and data.  Those
interested in using their own data with Tax-Calculator might also look
to the [Tax-Cruncher](https://github.com/PSLmodels/Tax-Cruncher)
project, which is built as an interface between Tax-Calculator and
custom datasets.
